Customer churn is the percentage of customers who stopped using or purchasing your company's product or service during a certain period of time. 
It is also known as the rate of attrition or customer attrition. 

Churn rate (sometimes called attrition rate) is a measure of the proportion of individuals or items moving out of a group over a specific period
The term comes from the image of agitation of cream in a butter churn
You can calculate churn rate by dividing the number of customers you lost during that time period by the number of customers you had at the beginning of that time period. 
Churn is typically measured by SaaS and subscription-based companies that have recurring revenue. 
Customer churn is a critical metric because it is much less expensive to retain existing customers than to acquire new customers

TELCO CUSTOMER CHURN
Predict behavior to retain customers for a telco company. Each row represents a customer and column represents features of the customers
The data includes customers who left within the last month.

1. Aim of this Project
Aim of the  project is to find a solution for predicting customer churn in a telecommunications company. A few classification models will be trained and the best performing model is selected. 
Then Streamlit is used to present the output of the model through a user-friendly interface. 
SHAP(SHapley Additive exPlanations) is an explainable AI method which will be used to explain to what extent each feature used in the model affects the model outcome.
FastAPI is used to provide real-time predictions.
Docker automates the deployment and scaling of the entire solution.

Business Metric: is to predict churn rate. The proportion of customers that left the telco company
Business Impact: reduce churn rate because it is much less expensive to retain existing customers than to acquire new customers.

2. About the data.
The dataset used is a sample dataset from IBM that can be accessed on Kaggle(https://www.kaggle.com/datasets/blastchar/telco-customer-churn). It is made up of 7083 customers with 21 features. The features include customer account information, demographic information, and registered services. The label (Churn) contains information on whether a customer has churned

Models used in predicting customer churn
1. Logistic regression is widely used for binary classification tasks, such as predicting churn (yes/no).
It is a glassbox model i.e. it is simple and interpretable. It performs well when the relationship between features and the target is    linear.
Logistic Regression will be the baseline model.


2. Random Forests are an ensemble of decision trees. They combine multiple trees to improve prediction accuracy and reduce overfitting.
This model is robust against noise and outliers and handles high-dimensional data well.
Random forests are effective for improving model performance and handling complex relationships.


3. CatBoost is designed for categorical data. This model performs well with datasets that have categorical features like “yes” or “no,” or different categories. It handles features well without requiring extensive preprocessing.

4. Explainable Boosting Machine(EBM) is a glassbox model that takes into account high accuracy while maintaining interpretability. This classifier employs cyclic gradient boosting and can perform automatice interaction detection.